# Genetic and antigenic characterization of an expanding H3 Cluster IV-A influenza A virus clade in US swine visualized by Nextstrain 
Figures and analysis files associated with the following manuscript: 

Megan N. Neveau, Michael A. Zeller, Bryan S. Kaplan, Carine K. Souza, Phillip C. Gauger, Amy L. Vincent, Tavis K. Anderson (unpublished). Genetic and antigenic characterization of an expanding H3 Cluster IV-A influenza A virus clade in US swine visualized by Nextstrain. 

## Abstract
The genetic and antigenic diversity of influenza A virus in swine (IAV-S) is shaped by transmission and persistence of human IAV within pig populations.   The relative frequency of the phylogenetic clade H3 CIV-A that circulated for 20 years in US swine declined to 7% in 2017, but rose to 32% in 2019. To determine putative mechanisms associated with increased detection, we conducted phylogenetic and phenotypic analyses of representative strains. To visualize and the emergence, spatial spread, and genetic evolution of H3 IAV-S we developed a Nextstrain web application. These data identified two C-IVA clades that emerged in 2017 and cocirculated within multiple US states. Phylodynamic analysis of the HA gene documented low relative genetic diversity from 2017 to 2019, suggesting clonal expansion of genetically similar viruses. The clade with the majority of detections was associated with an N156H amino acid substitution, but HI assays demonstrated no significant antigenic drift associated with this mutation. Genome constellation diversity was also quantified. The minor clade was paired with N2-02B.2 clade in ancestral strains, but acquired an N2-02A.2 in 2016. An 8-fold change in NI titers between the N2 from 02B.2 and 02A.2 clades was observed, indicating antigenic drift between the N2 clades associated with the two H3 clades. The major clade HA gene was tightly linked with the nucleoprotein (NP) of the H1N1pdm09 lineage, indicating reassortment to replace the North American swine lineage NP. These data demonstrate that increased detection of the H3 Clade IV-A was not associated with increased genetic or antigenic diversity of the HA, but was associated with antigenic diversity of the NA and acquisition of the H1N1pdm09 NP. Defining factors driving spatial and temporal patterns in IAV-S diversity in swine is essential to informing vaccine strain selection and strategies to reduce the expansion and spread of potentially zoonotic swine-origin IAV.
